Atria Institute of Technology was established in the year 2000 under the management of A S Kuppa Raju & Brothers Charitable Foundation Trust. This self-financed private institution is a unit of the distinguished Atria group. The institute is located at Hebbal in Bangalore, Karnataka.

The institute is affiliated to the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belgaum. It is approved by the Government of Karnataka and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi. It has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation, New Delhi.

The institute has earned a name for itself within a short span of 13 years. Today the institute is counted among the reputed technical institutions of Karnataka. It has a team of well qualified and dedicated faculty who guide and groom the students towards academic excellence in the field of Engineering and Management. The institute follows a student-centric approach and implements many innovative programs to help the students to achieve success and become globally acceptable engineers.


 
Campus
Atria Institute of Technology stands on a sprawling campus of more than 17.5 acres of land. The institute has a large building that is equipped with all the amenities needed to create conducive learning atmosphere. The campus has huge open spaces and is covered by many green trees that enhance its beauty. Situated in the heart of the city and just a few hundred meters away from Bangalore-Hyderabad National Highway (NH-7), the campus is easily reachable from any part of Bangalore.

Courses Offered
The institute offers under graduate courses leading to Bachelor of Engineering (B.E) Degree in six disciplines. The institute also offers post graduate degrees in two disciplines. The courses offered by the institute are:

Under Graduate Courses

B.E. in Computer Science & Engineering (CS & E)
B.E. in Information Science & Engineering (IS & E)
B.E. in Electronics & Communication Engineering (E & C)
B.E. in Mechanical Engineering (ME)
B.E. in Civil Engineering (CE)
B.E. in Telecommunication Engineering
Post Graduate Courses

Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Technology (M. Tech) in Computer Science and Engineering
Infrastructure and Facilities
Atria Institute of Technology offers all modern infrastructure and facilities needed for imparting quality education in the technical field. Among the facilities offered by the institute are:

Spacious and well furnished classrooms
LCD projectors in all the classrooms
High tech computer lab with more than 500 computers and campus-wide LAN
Well equipped internet laboratory-cum-browsing centre with 15 MB internet connectivity
ISRO EDUSAT facility with interactive two-way connectivity to VTU studio
State of the art laboratories equipped with latest equipment and teaching aids
Three large and fully furnished seminar halls, each having a seating capacity for more than 150 people
Seminar halls equipped with LCD projectors and latest audio and video systems
Separate rooms earmarked for placement cell activities
A spacious and well stocked central library that consists of more than 15000 volumes
A digital library with over 8000 volumes on Information Technology and foreign journals
Accessibility to online national and international journal subscriptions
24 x 7 Power supply with a 250 KVA generator
Recreational facilities like large playground for outdoor sports and games
Amenities for outdoor games like cricket, basket ball, volley ball, football, throw ball, hand ball, kabaddi, etc.
Amenities for indoor games such as chess, carom, table tennis, etc.
Medical facilities
Transportation facilities for easy conveyance of students and faculty
Separate hostel for boys and girls with facilities like healthy food, solar water heater, television for entertainment, etc.
Training and Placement Cell
Atria Institute of Technology has a strong training and placement cell that works for the placement of students in reputed organizations and companies. The training cell undertakes several initiatives like conducting group discussions, personal interviews, mock interviews, etc. The placement cell has several rooms under it for the purpose of group discussions and interviews. Students are compulsorily provided training in soft skills, aptitude enhancement and personality development. The training cell also organizes regular placement related activities like technical tests, aptitude tests, seminars, workshops and personality development programmes (PDP).