Bangalore, officially Bengaluru[11] (['be?g??u??u ] (About this soundlisten)), is the capital of the Indian state of Karnataka. It has a population of over ten million,[8] making it a megacity and the third-most populous city and fifth-most populous urban agglomeration in India.[12] It is located in southern India, on the Deccan Plateau at an elevation of over 900 m (3,000 ft) above sea level. Its multi-ethnic, multi-religious,[promotional language] and cosmopolitan character[promotional language] is reflected by its more than 1000 Hindu temples, 400 mosques, 100 churches, 40 Jain Basadis, three Sikh gurdwaras, two Buddhist viharas and one Parsi fire temple located in an area of 741 km² of the metropolis.[citation needed] The religious places are further represented by the proposed Chabad of the Jewish community. The numerous Bahá'ís have a society called the Bahá'í Centre.[13]

The City's history dates back to around 890 AD, in a stone inscription found at the Nageshwara Temple in Begur, Bangalore. The Begur inscription is written in Halegannada (ancient Kannada), mentions 'Bengaluru Kalaga' (battle of Bengaluru). It was a significant turning point in the history of Bangalore as it bears the earliest reference to the name 'Bengaluru'.[14]

In 1537 CE, Kempé Gowda – a feudal ruler under the Vijayanagara Empire – established a mud fort considered to be the foundation of modern Bengaluru and its oldest areas, or petes, which exist to the present day. After the fall of Vijayanagar empire in 16th century, the Mughals sold Bangalore to Chikkadevaraja Wodeyar (1673–1704), the then ruler of the Kingdom of Mysore for three lakh rupees.[15] When Haider Ali seized control of the Kingdom of Mysore, the administration of Bangalore passed into his hands. It was captured by the British East India Company after victory in the Fourth Anglo-Mysore War (1799), who returned administrative control of the city to the Maharaja of Mysore. The old city developed in the dominions of the Maharaja of Mysore and was made capital of the Princely State of Mysore, which existed as a nominally sovereign entity of the British Raj.

In 1809, the British shifted their cantonment to Bangalore, outside the old city, and a town grew up around it, which was governed as part of British India. Following India's independence in 1947, Bangalore became the capital of Mysore State, and remained capital when the new Indian state of Karnataka was formed in 1956. The two urban settlements of Bangalore – city and cantonment – which had developed as independent entities merged into a single urban centre in 1949. The existing Kannada name, Bengaluru, was declared the official name of the city in 2006.

Bengaluru is sometimes referred to as the "Silicon Valley of India" (or "IT capital of India") because of its role as the nation's leading information technology (IT) exporter.[1][16][17] Indian technological organisations ISRO, Infosys, Wipro and HAL are headquartered in the city. Bangalore is the second fastest-growing major metropolis in India.[18] Bengaluru has one of the most highly educated workforces in the world.[19][20] It is home to many educational and research institutions. Mysore Sandal Soap is produced in this city. The city also houses the Kannada film industry also called Sandalwood.